ACD-502 (#26)
Actindo-AG/Documentation: DataHub/Integration/03_ManageAttributeGroups.md

[!!User Interface Attribute groups](../UserInterface/02c_AttributeGroups.md)
[!!Manage the attributes](./01_ManageAttributes.md)
[!!Manage the attribute sets](./02_ManageAttributeSets.md)

# Manage an attribute group

The attribute groups serve the logical organization of the product attributes. Attribute groups are organized in a tree structure with a maximum depth of two levels.

Note that attributes can only be added to leaf-groups, that means either to an attribute group without sub-groups or to the sub-group(s) of an attribute group.
Once a sub-group has been created for an attribute group, attributes can no longer be assigned to the attribute group but only to the sub-groups.
If the attribute group already contained attributes, these attributes are automatically moved to first sub-group.

> 

Reviewer: Trifft diese Info auch bei PIM zu? Wenn ja, in PIM hinzufügen?

Additional attributes for the attribute group have been created, see [Create an attribute](./01_ManageAttributes.md#create-an-attribute).

#### Procedure

*DataHub > Settings > Tab ATTRIBUTE GROUPS*

![Attribute groups](../../Assets/Screenshots/DataHub/Settings/AttributeGroups/AttributeGroups.png "[Attribute groups]")

1. Click the ![Edit](../../Assets/Icons/Edit02.png "[Edit]") (Edit) button to the right of the *Attribute groups* section in the left column.   
  The *Edit attribute groups* view is displayed.

  ![Edit attribute groups](../../Assets/Screenshots/DataHub/Settings/AttributeGroups/EditAttributeGroups.png "[Edit attribute groups]")

2. Click the ![Add](../../Assets/Icons/Plus01.png "[Add]") (Add) button in the bottom right corner.   
  A plus sign is displayed in the attribute group column.

  ![Add attribute group](../../Assets/Screenshots/DataHub/Settings/AttributeGroups/AddAttributeGroup.png "[Add attribute group]")

3. Click the plus sign in the attribute group column.    
  The *Add element* window is displayed in the attribute group column.

  ![Add element](../../Assets/Screenshots/DataHub/Settings/AttributeGroups/AddElement.png "[Add element]")

> 

Reviewer: Add element is gleich -> wiederverwenden? (wiederkehrende Fenster)

4. Enter a name for the attribute group in the *Name* field.

> 5. Enter a key for the attribute group in the *Key* field. The number of characters is limited to 190.

Reviewer: The number of characters is limited to 190. -> Info fehlt im PIM.

  > [Info] If you want to change the order of the attribute groups in the list, see [Change the order of attribute groups](#change-the-order-of-attribute-groups).

7. Click the [SAVE] button in the upper right corner.  
  The new attribute group has been saved. The *Edit attribute groups* view is closed.

## Edit an attribute group

After you have created an attribute group, you can edit it.
You can create attribute sub-groups, change the order of attribute groups, add attributes to a group, change the order of attributes within a group, remove attributes from an attribute group or delete attribute groups.

### Create an attribute sub-group

Create an attribute sub-group to organize the attributes in special groups, for instance depending on product-related categories.
If the attribute group already contained attributes, these attributes are automatically moved to first sub-group.

Attribute groups are organized in a tree structure with a maximum depth of two levels. That means that a maximum of one sub-group level can be added to an attribute group.

> 

Reviewer: If the attribute group already contained attributes, these attributes are automatically moved to first sub-group.

Attribute groups are organized in a tree structure with a maximum depth of two levels. That means that a maximum of one sub-group level can be added to an attribute group.

Info fehlt im PIM? Wenn relevant, hinzufügen?

  The *Edit attribute groups* view is displayed.

  ![Edit attribute groups](../../Assets/Screenshots/DataHub/Settings/AttributeGroups/EditAttributeGroups.png "[Edit attribute groups]")

2. Click the attribute group to which you want to create a sub-group.   
  The existing attribute sub-groups are displayed in the column to the right of the attribute group column.

  ![Attribute sub-groups](../../Assets/Screenshots/DataHub/Settings/AttributeGroups/AttributeSubGroups.png "[Attribute sub-groups]")

3. Click the ![Add](../../Assets/Icons/Plus01.png "[Add]") (Add) button in the bottom right corner.   
  Plus signs are displayed in the attribute group and the attribute sub-group column.

  ![Add attribute sub-group](../../Assets/Screenshots/DataHub/Settings/AttributeGroups/AddAttributeSubGroups.png "[Add attribute sub-group]")

4. Click the plus sign in the attribute sub-group column.    
  The *Add element* window is displayed in the attribute sub-group column.

  ![Add element](../../Assets/Screenshots/DataHub/Settings/AttributeGroups/AddElement.png "[Add element]")

> 

Reviewer: Add element is gleich -> wiederverwenden? (wiederkehrende Fenster)

5. Enter a name for the attribute sub-group in the *Name* field.

> 6. Enter a key for the attribute sub-group in the *Key* field. The number of characters is limited to 190.

Reviewer: The number of characters is limited to 190. -> Info fehlt in PIM.

7. Click the [SAVE] button.   
  The attribute sub-group has been created. The *Add element* window is closed. The new attribute sub-group is displayed in the attribute sub-group column.

  ![Attribute sub-group created](../../Assets/Screenshots/DataHub/Settings/AttributeGroups/AttributeSubGroupCreated.png "[Attribute sub-group created]")

  > [Info] If you want to change the order of the attribute sub-groups in the list, see [Change the order of attribute groups](#change-the-order-of-attribute-groups).

8. Click the [SAVE] button in the upper right corner.  
  The new attribute sub-group has been saved. The *Edit attribute groups* view is closed.

  > [Info] Note that if the attribute group already contained attributes, these attributes are automatically moved to first sub-group.

### Change the order of attribute groups

> The order of attribute groups in the *ATTRIBUTE GROUPS* tab equals to the order of attributes groups in the product view.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The order of attribute groups in the *ATTRIBUTE GROUPS* tab equals the order of attributes groups in the product view.
```

#### Procedure

*DataHub > Settings > Tab ATTRIBUTE GROUPS*

![Attribute groups](../../Assets/Screenshots/DataHub/Settings/AttributeGroups/AttributeGroups.png "[Attribute groups]")

1. Click the ![Edit](../../Assets/Icons/Edit02.png "[Edit]") (Edit) button to the right of the *Attribute groups* section in the left column.   
  The *Edit attribute groups* view is displayed.

  ![Edit attribute groups](../../Assets/Screenshots/DataHub/Settings/AttributeGroups/EditAttributeGroups.png "[Edit attribute groups]")

2. Click and hold the ![Sort](../../Assets/Icons/Sort01.png "[Sort]") (Sort) button to the left of the attribute group you want to move to another position in the list.

3. By using drag and drop, move the selected attribute group to the desired position in the list.

4. Click the [SAVE] button in the upper right corner.  
  The new attribute group order has been saved. The *Edit attribute groups* view is closed.

### Delete an attribute group

You can delete an attribute group if it is no longer in use.
Note that you just delete the attribute group but not the attributes within a group.

> All active attributes that are no longer assigned to an attribute group are automatically assigned to a new attribute group with the name *Unassigned group* which is only displayed in the product view.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All active attributes that are no longer assigned to an attribute group are automatically assigned to a new attribute group with the name *Unassigned group*, which is only displayed in the product view.
```

The procedure to delete attribute groups and sub-groups is identical.
Just select the attribute sub-group instead of the group and follow the steps described below.

#### Prerequisites

At least one attribute group has been created, see [Create an attribute group](#create-an-attribute-group).

#### Procedure

*DataHub > Settings > Tab ATTRIBUTE GROUPS*

![Attribute groups](../../Assets/Screenshots/DataHub/Settings/AttributeGroups/AttributeGroups.png "[Attribute groups]")

1. Click the ![Edit](../../Assets/Icons/Edit02.png "[Edit]") (Edit) button to the right of the *Attribute groups* section in the left column.   
  The *Edit attribute groups* view is displayed.

  ![Edit attribute groups](../../Assets/Screenshots/DataHub/Settings/AttributeGroups/EditAttributeGroups.png "[Edit attribute groups]")

2. Click the ![Edit](../../Assets/Icons/Edit03.png "[Edit]") (Edit) button to the right of the attribute group you want to delete.   
  The attribute group data is displayed in a window in the attribute group column.

  ![Edit attribute group data](../../Assets/Screenshots/DataHub/Settings/AttributeGroups/EditAttributeGroupData.png "[Edit attribute group data]")

> 

Reviewer: Vgl. Screenshot PIM / DataHub Screenshot im PIM wiederverwenden.

- At least one attribute group has been created, see [Create an attribute group](#create-an-attribute-group).
- At least one additional attribute has been  created that is not yet assigned to a group, see [Create an attribute](./01_ManageAttributes.md#create-an-attribute).

#### Procedure

*DataHub > Settings > Tab ATTRIBUTE GROUPS*

![Attribute groups](../../Assets/Screenshots/DataHub/Settings/AttributeGroups/AttributeGroups.png "[Attribute groups]")

1. Click the attribute group or sub-group to which you want to add an attribute.   
  The selected attribute group is highlighted. The attributes assigned to the group are displayed on the right side.

  > [Info] If an attribute group has at least one attribute sub-group, you can only add an attribute to the sub-group.

  ![Group attributes](../../Assets/Screenshots/DataHub/Settings/AttributeGroups/GroupAttributes.png "[Group attributes]")

2. Click the ![Add](../../Assets/Icons/Plus01.png "[Add]") (Add) button in the bottom right corner.   
  The *Add attributes to attribute group* view is displayed.

  ![Add attributes](../../Assets/Screenshots/DataHub/Settings/AttributeGroups/AddAttributes.png "[Add attributes]")

> 3. Select the checkboxes of the attributes in the list, you want to add to the selected attribute group.   

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Select the checkboxes of the attributes you want to add to the selected attribute group.   
```
Alternativ: In the list, ... / In the attribute list, ... (s.o.)

  A toolbar is displayed above the list.

  > [Info] Enable the *Only Unassigned Attributes* toggle above the list to hide all attributes that are already assigned to an attribute group.

4. Click the [ADD] button in the toolbar.
  The *Add attributes to attribute group* view is closed. The selected attributes have been added to the attribute group.

>   > [Info] The new attributes will be added at the end of the attribute list. If you want to change the position of an attribute in the list, see [Change the order of attributes within a group](#change-the-order-of-attributes-within-a-group).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  > [Info] The new attributes are added at the end of the attribute list. If you want to change the position of an attribute in the list, see [Change the order of attributes within a group](#change-the-order-of-attributes-within-a-group).
```
(vgl. PIM)

### Change the order of attributes within a group

> The order of attributes within an attribute group in the *ATTRIBUTE GROUPS* tab equals to the order of attributes within a group in the product view.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The order of attributes within an attribute group in the *ATTRIBUTE GROUPS* tab equals the order of attributes within a group in the product view.
```

2. Click the ![Sort attributes](../../Assets/Icons/Sort02.png "[Sort attributes]") (Sort attributes) button above the list.   
  The *Assigned attributes (Sorting mode)* view is displayed on the right side.

  ![Assigned attributes](../../Assets/Screenshots/DataHub/Settings/AttributeGroups/AssignedAttributes.png "[Assigned attributes]")

3. Click and hold the ![Sort](../../Assets/Icons/Sort01.png "[Sort]") (Sort) button to the left of the attribute you want to move to another position in the list.

4. By using drag and drop, move the selected attribute to the desired position in the list.

  > [Info] Repeat the steps **3** and **4** for all attributes whose position in the list you want to change.

5. Click the [SAVE] button in the upper right corner.
  The new order of attributes within the selected attribute group has been saved. The *Assigned attributes (Sorting mode)* view is closed.

### Remove attributes from a group

You can remove an attribute from an attribute group if it is no longer in use.
Note that you just remove the attribute from the attribute group but you do not delete the attribute itself.

> Alternatively, you can [deactivate an attribute](./01_ManageAttributes.md#deactivate-an-attribute) so it is no longer displayed in the product view.    

Reviewer: s.o. zu Linkformat

The procedure to remove attributes from attribute groups or sub-groups is identical.
Just select the attribute sub-group instead of the group and follow the steps described below.

#### Prerequisites

- At least one attribute group has been created, see [Create an attribute group](#create-an-attribute-group).
- At least one attribute has been added to the attribute group, see [Add attributes to a group](#add-attributes-to-a-group).

#### Procedure

*DataHub > Settings > Tab ATTRIBUTE GROUPS*

![Attribute groups](../../Assets/Screenshots/DataHub/Settings/AttributeGroups/AttributeGroups.png "[Attribute groups]")

1. Click the attribute group or sub-group where you want to remove an attribute from.   
  The selected attribute group is highlighted. The attributes assigned to the attribute group are displayed on the right side.

  ![Group attributes](../../Assets/Screenshots/DataHub/Settings/AttributeGroups/GroupAttributes.png "[Group attributes]")

> 2. Select the checkboxes of the attributes in the list, you want to remove from the selected attribute group.   

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Select the checkboxes of the attributes you want to remove from the selected attribute group.   
```
Altermativ: In the (attribute) list, ...
